Add an example to `color-scheme` CSS property (#30712)
mdn/content: files/en-us/web/css/color-scheme/index.md

### Adapting to color schemes

To opt the entire page into the user's color scheme preferences, declare `color-scheme` on the {{cssxref(":root")}} element.

```css
:root {
  color-scheme: light dark;
}
```

### Setting colors based on color scheme

> To style elements based on color scheme preferences, use [`prefers-color-scheme`](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/@media/prefers-color-scheme) media query:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To style elements based on color scheme preferences, use the [`prefers-color-scheme`](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/@media/prefers-color-scheme) media query. The example below opts in elements with a class of `.element` to using both light and dark operating system color schemes via the `color-scheme` property, and then uses `prefers-color-scheme` to specify the desired foreground and background colors for those color schemes.
```

Reviewer: This is just a suggestion of course, but I thought it would be useful to add a bit of explanation as to what is going on.

```css

> :root {

Reviewer: ```suggestion
.element {
```

Reviewer: Maybe change this so that it isn't just showing the same thing as the previous example?

Besides which, isn't the default behavior that the browser will allow all color schemes for all elements on the page anyway? In which case I do question the usefulness of `:root { color-scheme: light dark }`. It might be better to talk about a specific element containing say brand-specific elements (like a banner ad), where you don't want to change the colors using a color scheme under the terms of the brand guidelines?

I don't know, what do you think?

Author: I understand why you suggest this, but this is a separate example.

I prefer to update the previous example, to add additional information.

Author: @chrisdavidmills see this change: https://github.com/mdn/content/pull/30712/commits/8f2f21bda43db4bbbfd7a0ea9df9571b1a16f430

Reviewer: Looks good; I am fine with this.

  color-scheme: light dark;
}

@media (prefers-color-scheme: light) {
  .element {
    color: black;
    background-color: white;
  }
}

@media (prefers-color-scheme: dark) {
  .element {
    color: white;
    background-color: black;
  }
}
```

> Alternatively, use the experimental [`light-dark()`](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/color_value/light-dark) [`<color>` function](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/CSS_Functions#color_functions):

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Alternatively, use the experimental [`light-dark()`](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/color_value/light-dark) [`<color>` function](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/CSS_Functions#color_functions) to set the foreground and background colors for the different color schemes using a more compact code structure:
```

```css
:root {
  color-scheme: light dark;
}

.element {
  color: light-dark(black, white);
  background-color: light-dark(white, black);
}

> ```

Reviewer: Do you think it would be useful to turn this into a live sample? Maybe include some HTML that shows a bit of UI where one element is affected by color scheme changes and the other isn't, as per my comments above, and include a line telling the user to change their OS color scheme preferences (or switch MDN between light and dark mode?) to see the difference?

Author: @chrisdavidmills

Looking the the examples flow: The first example shows how to use this property, on the whole page or on specific elements. The second example displays the difference between using the `@media` and the `light-dark()` function.

If you prefer, we can create a third example with live sample to help users actually see the color changes based on the OS color scheme preferences. But, how would that be different from the demo in the "[Try it](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/color-scheme#try_it)" section? only the HTML?

Reviewer: You are right that the "Try it" example provides a live experience. I think you can leave this for now.

### Adapting to color schemes

To opt the entire page into the user's color scheme preferences, declare `color-scheme` on the {{cssxref(":root")}} element.

```css
:root {
  color-scheme: light dark;
}
```

> To style specific elements based on the user's color scheme preferences, declare `color-scheme` on specific elements.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To opt in specific elements to the user's color scheme preferences, declare `color-scheme` on those elements.
```

As you are not applying any actual styling to the elements.

```css
header {
  color-scheme: only light;
}
main {
  color-scheme: light dark;
}
footer {
  color-scheme: only dark;
}
```

### Setting colors based on color scheme

> To style elements based on color scheme preferences, use the [`prefers-color-scheme`](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/@media/prefers-color-scheme) media query. The example below opts in elements with a class of `.element` to using both light and dark operating system color schemes via the `color-scheme` property, and then uses `prefers-color-scheme` to specify the desired foreground and background colors for those color schemes.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To style elements based on color scheme preferences, use the [`prefers-color-scheme`](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/@media/prefers-color-scheme) media query. The example below opts in the entire page to using both light and dark operating system color schemes via the `color-scheme` property, and then uses `prefers-color-scheme` to specify the desired foreground and background colors for individual elements in those color schemes.
```

Apologies, my previous suggestion sent you slightly wrong here.
